docs/first_story.mdx, before:

---
id: write-first-story
title: Write your first story
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import my_project_macos_sample_stories from './assets/my_project_macos_sample_stories.png';
import my_project_windows_sample_stories from './assets/my_project_windows_sample_stories.png';
import my_project_macos_flutter_sdk_stories from './assets/my_project_macos_flutter_sdk_stories.png';
import my_project_windows_flutter_sdk_stories from './assets/my_project_windows_flutter_sdk_stories.png';

## What's a Story
Monarch is inspired by [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/). Conceptually, 
Monarch stories are the same as Storybook stories.

:::tip What's a Story
A story captures the rendered state of a Flutter widget. Developers write 
multiple stories per widget that describe all the “interesting” states 
a widget can support.
:::

In code, a story is a function that returns a `Widget`. Stories should be 
placed in dart files that end with `*_stories.dart`.

The `monarch init` command created a `stories` directory in your project. You
can place stories inside the `stories` directory or, if you prefer, you can place them 
inside your `lib` directory. The only requirement is that story files should 
end in `*_stories.dart`.

Since stories are functions that return a `Widget`, your stories code
doesn't need to import the `monarch` package. Also, since stories are 
plain functions, they can be re-used from your widget tests.

## Examples of stories

### Sample stories
The `monarch init` command created the file `stories\sample_stories.dart`. You 
can open that file to see how those stories are written. After you run 
`monarch run` you should see those stories in the Monarch desktop app.

You should see something like this:

<Tabs
  groupId="operating-systems"
  defaultValue="mac"
  values={[
    {label: 'macOS', value: 'mac'},
    {label: 'Windows', value: 'win'},
  ]
}>
  <TabItem value="mac">
    <img alt="my_project macOS sample stories" src={my_project_macos_sample_stories}/>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="win">
    <img alt="my_project Windows sample stories" src={my_project_windows_sample_stories}/>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Feel free to edit those stories to see their visual state change.

### Flutter SDK stories
You can write stories for widgets in the Flutter SDK, which is a good way 
to quickly prototype a view. Add the following code to `stories\sample_stories.dart`:

```dart
Widget foo() => Text('foo', style: TextStyle(fontSize: 50));
Widget bar() => Icon(Icons.pets, size: 50);
Widget foobar() => Center(child: Column(children: [foo(), bar()]));
```

Save those changes, you should see something like this:

<Tabs
  groupId="operating-systems"
  defaultValue="mac"
  values={[
    {label: 'macOS', value: 'mac'},
    {label: 'Windows', value: 'win'},
  ]
}>
  <TabItem value="mac">
    <img alt="my_project macOS Flutter SDK stories" src={my_project_macos_flutter_sdk_stories}/>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="win">
    <img alt="my_project Windows Flutter SDK stories" src={my_project_windows_flutter_sdk_stories}/>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Stories for your own widgets
Let's say your project has a couple of widgets files. One is inside `lib`
and one inside `lib\src`.

```
- my_project
    - lib
        - my_fancy_button.dart
        - src
            - my_fancy_card.dart
```

To write stories for those widgets, you just need to import them into a 
`*_stories.dart` file, then you can write stories for those widgets.
```dart
// stories/my_stories.dart
import 'package:my_project/my_fancy_button.dart';
import 'package:my_project/src/my_fancy_card.dart';

Widget someButton => MyFancyButton(...);
Widget anotherButton => MyFancyButton(...);

Widget someCard => MyFancyCard(...);
Widget anotherCard => MyFancyCard(...);
```

After you run `monarch run` you should see those stories in the Monarch desktop 
app.

## gitignore .monarch directory
`monarch run` will generate a `.monarch` directory in your project. You
can gitignore that directory.
```
# in .gitignore
.monarch/
```

Commit message:

meta tags for title, description, image

docs/first_story.mdx, after:

---
id: write-first-story
title: Write your first story
description: Monarch is a tool for developing Flutter widgets in isolation. It makes it super easy to build widgets for complex UIs.
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import my_project_macos_sample_stories from './assets/my_project_macos_sample_stories.png';
import my_project_windows_sample_stories from './assets/my_project_windows_sample_stories.png';
import my_project_macos_flutter_sdk_stories from './assets/my_project_macos_flutter_sdk_stories.png';
import my_project_windows_flutter_sdk_stories from './assets/my_project_windows_flutter_sdk_stories.png';

## What's a Story
Monarch is inspired by [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/). Conceptually, 
Monarch stories are the same as Storybook stories.

:::tip What's a Story
A story captures the rendered state of a Flutter widget. Developers write 
multiple stories per widget that describe all the “interesting” states 
a widget can support.
:::

In code, a story is a function that returns a `Widget`. Stories should be 
placed in dart files that end with `*_stories.dart`.

The `monarch init` command created a `stories` directory in your project. You
can place stories inside the `stories` directory or, if you prefer, you can place them 
inside your `lib` directory. The only requirement is that story files should 
end in `*_stories.dart`.

Since stories are functions that return a `Widget`, your stories code
doesn't need to import the `monarch` package. Also, since stories are 
plain functions, they can be re-used from your widget tests.

## Examples of stories

### Sample stories
The `monarch init` command created the file `stories\sample_stories.dart`. You 
can open that file to see how those stories are written. After you run 
`monarch run` you should see those stories in the Monarch desktop app.

You should see something like this:

<Tabs
  groupId="operating-systems"
  defaultValue="mac"
  values={[
    {label: 'macOS', value: 'mac'},
    {label: 'Windows', value: 'win'},
  ]
}>
  <TabItem value="mac">
    <img alt="my_project macOS sample stories" src={my_project_macos_sample_stories}/>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="win">
    <img alt="my_project Windows sample stories" src={my_project_windows_sample_stories}/>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Feel free to edit those stories to see their visual state change.

### Flutter SDK stories
You can write stories for widgets in the Flutter SDK, which is a good way 
to quickly prototype a view. Add the following code to `stories\sample_stories.dart`:

```dart
Widget foo() => Text('foo', style: TextStyle(fontSize: 50));
Widget bar() => Icon(Icons.pets, size: 50);
Widget foobar() => Center(child: Column(children: [foo(), bar()]));
```

Save those changes, you should see something like this:

<Tabs
  groupId="operating-systems"
  defaultValue="mac"
  values={[
    {label: 'macOS', value: 'mac'},
    {label: 'Windows', value: 'win'},
  ]
}>
  <TabItem value="mac">
    <img alt="my_project macOS Flutter SDK stories" src={my_project_macos_flutter_sdk_stories}/>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="win">
    <img alt="my_project Windows Flutter SDK stories" src={my_project_windows_flutter_sdk_stories}/>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Stories for your own widgets
Let's say your project has a couple of widgets files. One is inside `lib`
and one inside `lib\src`.

```
- my_project
    - lib
        - my_fancy_button.dart
        - src
            - my_fancy_card.dart
```

To write stories for those widgets, you just need to import them into a 
`*_stories.dart` file, then you can write stories for those widgets.
```dart
// stories/my_stories.dart
import 'package:my_project/my_fancy_button.dart';
import 'package:my_project/src/my_fancy_card.dart';

Widget someButton => MyFancyButton(...);
Widget anotherButton => MyFancyButton(...);

Widget someCard => MyFancyCard(...);
Widget anotherCard => MyFancyCard(...);
```

After you run `monarch run` you should see those stories in the Monarch desktop 
app.

## gitignore .monarch directory
`monarch run` will generate a `.monarch` directory in your project. You
can gitignore that directory.
```
# in .gitignore
.monarch/
```
