docs/install.mdx, before:

---
id: install
title: Install
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';
import clsx from 'clsx';

import macosVersionInfo from './versions/macos_version_info.json';
import windowsVersionInfo from './versions/windows_version_info.json';

export const commands = {
    downloadMac: `$ cd ~/development
$ curl -O ` + macosVersionInfo.installation_bundle_url 
    ,
    extractMac: `$ unzip ` + macosVersionInfo.installation_bundle_file
    ,
    extractWindows:`cd development
tar -x -f ` + windowsVersionInfo.installation_bundle_file
    ,
    pathMac: '$ export PATH="$PATH:`pwd`/monarch/bin"',
    pathWindows: 'set PATH=%PATH%;C:\\path\\to\\monarch\\bin'
}

### Download the Monarch binaries
:::info
This is the beta release of Monarch. We support Flutter development on macOS and Windows.
Linux support coming soon.
:::
<Tabs
  groupId="operating-systems"
  defaultValue="mac"
  values={[
    {label: 'macOS', value: 'mac'},
    {label: 'Windows', value: 'win'},
  ]
}>
  <TabItem value="mac">
    <ol><li>Download the following bundle to get the latest release of the Monarch
binaries, which include the Monarch CLI and desktop app. </li></ol>
    <CodeBlock language="bash">{commands.downloadMac}</CodeBlock>
    <br/>
    <ol start="2"><li>Extract the file in the desired location, for example:</li></ol>
    <CodeBlock language="bash">{commands.extractMac}</CodeBlock>
    <br/>
    <ol start="3"><li>Add the monarch binaries to your path:</li></ol>
    <CodeBlock language="bash">{commands.pathMac}</CodeBlock>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="win">
    <p><i>You may experience some stability issues with Monarch on Windows. Flutter desktop on Windows is still in alpha.</i></p>
    <ol><li>Download the following bundle to get the latest release of the Monarch
binaries, which include the Monarch CLI and desktop app. </li></ol>
    <div>
      <a 
        className={clsx('button button--outline button--primary button--lg')}
        href={windowsVersionInfo.installation_bundle_url}>{windowsVersionInfo.installation_bundle_file}</a>
    </div>
    <br/>
    <ol start="2"><li>Extract the file in the desired location, for example:</li></ol>
    <CodeBlock language="bash">{commands.extractWindows}</CodeBlock>
    <br/>
    <ol start="3"><li>Add the monarch binaries to your path:</li></ol>
    <CodeBlock language="bash">{commands.pathWindows}</CodeBlock>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

This command sets your PATH variable for the current terminal window only. To 
permanently add Monarch to your path, see [Update your path](#update-your-path).

### Run Monarch
1. Go to one of your Flutter projects and then run `monarch init`. Run it inside 
your existing project’s root directory:
```bash
$ monarch init
```
The `monarch init` command will set up all the dependencies needed to run monarch. 
It will also create a few sample stories in your project.

2. Run monarch using `monarch run`
```bash
$ monarch run
```
The `monarch run` command will prepare the stories in your project so they can
be rendered by the Monarch desktop app. The `monarch run` command will launch
the Monarch app so you can see your stories. 


### Update your path
Follow these instructions to update your path variable permanently, which will 
let you run `monarch` from any terminal window.

<Tabs
  groupId="operating-systems"
  defaultValue="mac"
  values={[
    {label: 'macOS', value: 'mac'},
    {label: 'Windows', value: 'win'},
  ]
}>
  <TabItem value="mac">
    <ol start="1"><li>Open your <code>rc</code> file, which may be ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bashrc or ~/.zshrc.</li></ol>
    <ol start="2"><li>Add the following line and change [PATH_TO_MONARCH] to be the path where you unzipped Monarch:</li></ol>
    <CodeBlock language="bash">export PATH="$PATH:[PATH_TO_MONARCH]/monarch/bin"</CodeBlock>
    <br/>
    <ol start="3"><li>Run <code>source ~/. rc file</code> to refresh the current window, or open a new terminal window to automatically source the file.</li></ol>
    <ol start="4"><li>Verify that the monarch/bin directory is now in your PATH by running:</li></ol>
    <CodeBlock language="bash">$ echo $PATH</CodeBlock>
    <br/>
    <ol start="5"><li>Verify that the monarch command is available by running:</li></ol>
    <CodeBlock language="bash">$ monarch --version</CodeBlock>
    <br/>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="win">
    <ol start="1"><li>From the Start search bar, enter ‘env’ and select Edit environment variables for your account.</li></ol>
    <ol start="2"><li>Under User variables, look for an entry called Path, then append the full path of <code>monarch\bin</code> using <code>;</code> as a separator from existing values.</li></ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

meta tags for title, description, image

docs/install.mdx, after:

---
id: install
title: Install
description: Monarch is a tool for developing Flutter widgets in isolation. It makes it super easy to build widgets for complex UIs.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';
import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';
import clsx from 'clsx';

import macosVersionInfo from './versions/macos_version_info.json';
import windowsVersionInfo from './versions/windows_version_info.json';

export const commands = {
    downloadMac: `$ cd ~/development
$ curl -O ` + macosVersionInfo.installation_bundle_url 
    ,
    extractMac: `$ unzip ` + macosVersionInfo.installation_bundle_file
    ,
    extractWindows:`cd development
tar -x -f ` + windowsVersionInfo.installation_bundle_file
    ,
    pathMac: '$ export PATH="$PATH:`pwd`/monarch/bin"',
    pathWindows: 'set PATH=%PATH%;C:\\path\\to\\monarch\\bin'
}

### Download the Monarch binaries
:::info
This is the beta release of Monarch. We support Flutter development on macOS and Windows.
Linux support coming soon.
:::
<Tabs
  groupId="operating-systems"
  defaultValue="mac"
  values={[
    {label: 'macOS', value: 'mac'},
    {label: 'Windows', value: 'win'},
  ]
}>
  <TabItem value="mac">
    <ol><li>Download the following bundle to get the latest release of the Monarch
binaries, which include the Monarch CLI and desktop app. </li></ol>
    <CodeBlock language="bash">{commands.downloadMac}</CodeBlock>
    <br/>
    <ol start="2"><li>Extract the file in the desired location, for example:</li></ol>
    <CodeBlock language="bash">{commands.extractMac}</CodeBlock>
    <br/>
    <ol start="3"><li>Add the monarch binaries to your path:</li></ol>
    <CodeBlock language="bash">{commands.pathMac}</CodeBlock>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="win">
    <p><i>You may experience some stability issues with Monarch on Windows. Flutter desktop on Windows is still in alpha.</i></p>
    <ol><li>Download the following bundle to get the latest release of the Monarch
binaries, which include the Monarch CLI and desktop app. </li></ol>
    <div>
      <a 
        className={clsx('button button--outline button--primary button--lg')}
        href={windowsVersionInfo.installation_bundle_url}>{windowsVersionInfo.installation_bundle_file}</a>
    </div>
    <br/>
    <ol start="2"><li>Extract the file in the desired location, for example:</li></ol>
    <CodeBlock language="bash">{commands.extractWindows}</CodeBlock>
    <br/>
    <ol start="3"><li>Add the monarch binaries to your path:</li></ol>
    <CodeBlock language="bash">{commands.pathWindows}</CodeBlock>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

This command sets your PATH variable for the current terminal window only. To 
permanently add Monarch to your path, see [Update your path](#update-your-path).

### Run Monarch
1. Go to one of your Flutter projects and then run `monarch init`. Run it inside 
your existing project’s root directory:
```bash
$ monarch init
```
The `monarch init` command will set up all the dependencies needed to run monarch. 
It will also create a few sample stories in your project.

2. Run monarch using `monarch run`
```bash
$ monarch run
```
The `monarch run` command will prepare the stories in your project so they can
be rendered by the Monarch desktop app. The `monarch run` command will launch
the Monarch app so you can see your stories. 


### Update your path
Follow these instructions to update your path variable permanently, which will 
let you run `monarch` from any terminal window.

<Tabs
  groupId="operating-systems"
  defaultValue="mac"
  values={[
    {label: 'macOS', value: 'mac'},
    {label: 'Windows', value: 'win'},
  ]
}>
  <TabItem value="mac">
    <ol start="1"><li>Open your <code>rc</code> file, which may be ~/.bash_profile, ~/.bashrc or ~/.zshrc.</li></ol>
    <ol start="2"><li>Add the following line and change [PATH_TO_MONARCH] to be the path where you unzipped Monarch:</li></ol>
    <CodeBlock language="bash">export PATH="$PATH:[PATH_TO_MONARCH]/monarch/bin"</CodeBlock>
    <br/>
    <ol start="3"><li>Run <code>source ~/. rc file</code> to refresh the current window, or open a new terminal window to automatically source the file.</li></ol>
    <ol start="4"><li>Verify that the monarch/bin directory is now in your PATH by running:</li></ol>
    <CodeBlock language="bash">$ echo $PATH</CodeBlock>
    <br/>
    <ol start="5"><li>Verify that the monarch command is available by running:</li></ol>
    <CodeBlock language="bash">$ monarch --version</CodeBlock>
    <br/>
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="win">
    <ol start="1"><li>From the Start search bar, enter ‘env’ and select Edit environment variables for your account.</li></ol>
    <ol start="2"><li>Under User variables, look for an entry called Path, then append the full path of <code>monarch\bin</code> using <code>;</code> as a separator from existing values.</li></ol>
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
