docs/internationalization.mdx, before:

---
id: internationalization
title: Internationalization
---

If your application is internationalized (or localized), Monarch can render your 
stories using the locales you have declared in code. To do so, Monarch 
needs to know about your locales via the `MonarchLocalizations` annotation. 

1. Add the `package:monarch_annotations` to your dependencies:
```yaml
dependencies:
  monarch_annotations: ^0.0.12
``` 

2. Go to the dart file where you have declared your `LocalizationsDelegate` variable.
If you have created your localizations delegate in an in-line expressions, then you
would have to refactor it into a top-level variable. Once you have identified your
`LocalizationsDelegate` variable, add the `MonarchLocalizations` annotation as shown below:

```dart
import 'package:monarch_annotations/monarch_annotations.dart';
...

class MyLocalizationsDelegate extends LocalizationsDelegate<MyLocalizations> {...}

@MonarchLocalizations([MonarchLocale('en', 'US'), MonarchLocale('es')])
const myLocalizationsDelegate = MyLocalizationsDelegate();
```

3. Save your changes. The Monarch app will display your locales in the Locale dropdown.
When you select a locale, the selected story will render using the selected locale.

![Locales in Monarch](./assets/macos_locale_dropdown_en_es.png)

Commit message:

meta tags for title, description, image

docs/internationalization.mdx, after:

---
id: internationalization
title: Internationalization
description: Monarch is a tool for developing Flutter widgets in isolation. It makes it super easy to build widgets for complex UIs.
---

If your application is internationalized (or localized), Monarch can render your 
stories using the locales you have declared in code. To do so, Monarch 
needs to know about your locales via the `MonarchLocalizations` annotation. 

1. Add the `package:monarch_annotations` to your dependencies:
```yaml
dependencies:
  monarch_annotations: ^0.0.12
``` 

2. Go to the dart file where you have declared your `LocalizationsDelegate` variable.
If you have created your localizations delegate in an in-line expressions, then you
would have to refactor it into a top-level variable. Once you have identified your
`LocalizationsDelegate` variable, add the `MonarchLocalizations` annotation as shown below:

```dart
import 'package:monarch_annotations/monarch_annotations.dart';
...

class MyLocalizationsDelegate extends LocalizationsDelegate<MyLocalizations> {...}

@MonarchLocalizations([MonarchLocale('en', 'US'), MonarchLocale('es')])
const myLocalizationsDelegate = MyLocalizationsDelegate();
```

3. Save your changes. The Monarch app will display your locales in the Locale dropdown.
When you select a locale, the selected story will render using the selected locale.

![Locales in Monarch](./assets/macos_locale_dropdown_en_es.png)
